---

copyright:
  years: 2015, 2016

---

# Installing the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDKs
{: #mobileanalytics_sdk}
Last updated: 15 August 2016
{: .last-updated}

The {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}}
Client SDKs are currently available for Android, iOS and WatchOS.
{: #shortdesc}

## Installing the Android Client SDK
{: #install-sdk-android}

The {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK is distributed with Gradle, a dependency manager for Android projects. Gradle automatically downloads artifacts from repositories and makes them available to your Android application.

1. Create an [Android Studio](http://developer.android.com/sdk/index.html) project or open an existing project.

2. Open the `build.gradle` file that is in your application module.

  **Tip**: Your Android project might have two `build.gradle` files: one for the project and one for the application module. Make sure to use the **application module** file.

3. Find the `Dependencies` section of the `build.gradle` file and add a compile dependency for the {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} Client SDK, as follows:

  ```Gradle
    compile group: 'com.ibm.mobilefirstplatform.clientsdk.android',    
      name:'analytics',
      version: '1.+',
      ext: 'aar',
      transitive: true
  ```
  {: codeblock}

  Your repositories statement should be similar to the following code example:

	```Gradle
      dependencies {
        compile group: 'com.ibm.mobilefirstplatform.clientsdk.android',    
          name:'analytics',
          version: '1.+',
          ext: 'aar',
          transitive: true
    	// other dependencies  
      }
  ```
  {: codeblock}

4. Synchronize your project with Gradle by clicking **Tools &gt; Android &gt; Sync Project with Gradle Files**.

5. Open the `AndroidManifest.xml` file for your Android project and add internet access permission under the `<manifest>` element:

	```XML
	 <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
   ```
   {: codeblock}


## Installing the Swift SDK
{: #installing-sdk-ios}

The {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_full}} SDK enables you to instrument your mobile application. The Swift SDK is available for iOS and watchOS.

### Before you begin
{: #before-you-begin-ios}

Make sure that you correctly set up Xcode. To learn how to set up your iOS development environment, see the [Apple Developer website](https://developer.apple.com/support/xcode/).

The {{site.data.keyword.mobileanalytics_short}} SDK is distributed with [Cocoapods](https://cocoapods.org/) and [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#getting-started), which are dependency managers for Cocoa projects. CocoaPods and Carthage automatically download artifacts from repositories and makes them available to your application.

#### Cocoapods
{: #cocoapods}

1. If CocoaPods is not installed, run:

    ```
    sudo gem install cocoapods
    ```
    {: codeblock}

2. If you have not already initialized your workspace for CocoaPods, run the `pod init` command in the root directory of your Xcode project. CocoaPods creates a `Podfile` file for you, which is where you define dependencies for your Xcode project.

3. Add the `BMSAnalytics` pod to the target in your Podfile, for example:

  ```
  use_frameworks!

  target 'MyApp' do
     pod 'BMSAnalytics'
  end
  ```
  {: codeblock}

4. Save the `Podfile` file and run `pod install` from the command line.

	**Tip**: If you get an error when you add the `BMSAnalytics` pod, it could be that BMSAnalytics is not yet in your local cocoapods master repo. Run `pod repo update master` and retry `pod install`.
	
5. Open your Xcode project workspace by using the `.xcworkspace` file that was generated by CocoaPods.

	#### Swift 2.3
	{: #swift23}

	For apps that are built with Swift 2.3, you might receive a prompt to **Convert to Current Swift Syntax?** when opening your project in Xcode 8 (following the installation of BMSAnalytics). Choose the Convert option, and select `BMSCore.framework`, `BMSAnalyticsAPI.framework`, and `BMSAnalytics.framework`. 
	
	**Note**: Choose the convert option only once. If the prompt displays again, after you have already converted, always choose the **Later** option.

	#### Swift 3.0
	{: #swift30}

	For apps that are built with Swift 3.0, you might receive a prompt to **Convert to Current Swift Syntax?** when opening your project in Xcode 8 (following the installation of BMSAnalytics). Always choose the **Later** option.

#### Carthage
{: #carthage}

Add frameworks to your project using [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#if-youre-building-for-ios-tvos-or-watchos).

1. Add `BMSAnalytics` frameworks to your Cartfile:
  ```
  github "ibm-bluemix-mobile-services/bms-clientsdk-swift-analytics"
  ```
  {: codeblock}
  
2. Update Carthage as follows:
	* Swift 2.2: Run the `carthage update` command. 
	* Swift 2.3: Change the Command Line Tools setting in Xcode preferences to Xcode 8.0, then run the `TOOLCHAINS=com.apple.dt.toolchain.Swift_2_3 carthage update` bash command.
	* Swift 3.0: Change the Command Line Tools setting in Xcode preferences to Xcode 8.0, then run the `carthage update` command. 
3. When the build completes, drag `BMSAnalytics.framework`, `BMSCore.framework` and `BMSAnalyticsAPI.framework` into your Xcode project.
4. Follow the instructions on the [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#if-youre-building-for-ios-tvos-or-watchos) site to complete the integration.

# rellinks

## SDK
* [Android SDK](https://github.com/ibm-bluemix-mobile-services/bms-clientsdk-android-analytics){: new_window}  
* [iOS SDK](https://github.com/ibm-bluemix-mobile-services/bms-clientsdk-swift-analytics){: new_window}

## API Reference
{: #api}
* [REST API](https://mobile-analytics-dashboard.{DomainName}/analytics-service/){:new_window}
