---

copyright:
  years: 2016, 2017
lastupdated: "2017-03-03"
---

{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:screen: .screen}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:pre: .pre}

# Administering Trajectory Pattern Analysis
{: #tp_iotdriverinsights_admin}

To administer the Trajectory Pattern Analysis service, use the administration console on the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} dashboard. From the administration console, you can configure parameters for Trajectory Pattern Analysis and manage the data that is stored in the service. You can also view the tenant information and reset the tenant password.
{:shortdesc}

## Starting the administration console
{: #start-admin-console}

To access the administration console for the Trajectory Pattern Analysis service of {{site.data.keyword.iotdriverinsights_full}}

1. On the {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} dashboard, click the {{site.data.keyword.iotdriverinsights_short}} service tile.
2. Select the **Manage** view of your service instance.
Make a note of the user name and password credentials because you need them later. To access the administration console, your IBMid is required, which might not be the same as your {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} credentials.
3. Click **Launch** and, when prompted, enter your IBMid credentials.
4. Click **LOG IN**. The **Admin Console** window opens.


## Managing tenant information
{: #viewtenantinfo}

To view the tenant information, click **Tenant Information**.

### Resetting the tenant password
{: #resettenantpassword}

To reset the tenant password:

1. From the **Tenant Information** window, click **RESET**.
2. On the confirmation dialog box, click **OK**.
A new password is generated and displayed in the **Tenant Information** view.  
**Important:** Make sure that you update the password in all of your applications that access the {{site.data.keyword.iotdriverinsights_short}} API.

## Configuring the service parameters
{: #configureparameters}

Service parameters control how the trip data is analyzed. To modify the Trajectory Pattern Analysis service parameters:

1. Open the **Parameters** view.
2. Click the **Parameters of Trajectory Pattern** tab, and update the [trajectory pattern analysis parameters](#tp_parameters) to suit your requirements.
3. Click **SAVE**.
4. Click **OK**.

The updated parameter values are applied to the next job that is submitted.

### Support Threshold parameters

The following table describes the support threshold parameters that you can configure on the **Parameters of Trajectory Pattern** tab.

|Parameter name|Description|Default value|
|:--------|:--------|:-------|
|Minimal support of trip numbers for an O/D|The minimal absolute support trip numbers that are required for an O/D (Orign/Destination) pattern|4 (must be more than zero)|
|Minimal support of trip numbers for a route|The minimal absolute support trip numbers that are required for a route pattern|2 (must be more than zero)|

## Managing the results data
{: #managedata}

The results data that is generated by the analytics of the Trajectory Pattern Analysis service is stored in the system until you delete it.

To delete the results data:

1. Click **Data Management** > **Result of Trajectory Pattern**. The results data is displayed.
2. Select a record and then click **DELETE**.
