---

copyright:
  years: 2015, 2017

lastupdated: "2017-03-29"

---


{:shortdesc: .shortdesc}
{:new_window: target="_blank"}
{:codeblock: .codeblock}
{:screen: .screen}

# Logging in Bluemix
{: #logging_bmx_ov}

{{site.data.keyword.Bluemix}} logging capabilities are integrated in the platform and collection of data is automatically enabled for cloud resources. {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}, by default, collects and displays logs for your apps, apps runtimes, and compute runtimes where those apps run. 
{:shortdesc}

You can use the logging capabilities in {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} to understand the behavior of the cloud platform and the resources that are running in it. No special instrumentation is required to collect the standard out and the standard err logs. For example, you can use logs to provide an audit trail for an application, detect problems in your service, identify vulnerabilities, troubleshoot your app deployments and runtime behavior, detect problems in the infrastructure where your app is running, trace your app across components in the cloud platform, and detect patterns that you can use to preempt actions that could affect your service SLA.

When you run your apps in the cloud, you might not be able to SSH or FTP into the infrastructure where your apps are running to access the logs, for example if your app runs in Cloud Foundry. On the other hand, you can run your app in {{site.data.keyword.containershort}}, another compute runtime that is available in {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}, where you can SSH and access the logs. Regardless of the compute runtime, access to logs is critical and {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} provides a common experience to visualize and analyze logs in your cloud platform.

By using the logging functionality that {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} offers, you can:

* Have visibility into your cloud resources and how they are performing and running.
* Define trends that help you identify scenarios that require your action.
* Define trails of data for an app, for example, that you can use for auditing.
* Reduce the time and effort that is required to locate an issue in an app and repair it. 
* Monitor the deployment of your apps in the cloud platform.
* Detect when a service or an app is down or crashed.
* Follow application execution and data flow.
* Identify vulnerabilities in your app.
* Detect problems in the infrastructure.
* Detect problems in the app runtime.

## Logging for CF apps
{: #logging_bmx_ov_cf}

{{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} records log data that is generated by the Cloud Foundry platform and by Cloud Foundry applications. In the logs, you can view the errors, warnings, and informational messages that are produced for your app. For more information about logging in Cloud Foundry, see [Logging for Cloud Foundry apps in Bluemix](cfapps/logging_cf_apps.html#logging_bluemix_cf_apps).

## Logging for containers
{: #logging_bmx_ov_containers}

{{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} records log data that is generated by the {{site.data.keyword.containershort}}. For more information about logging in {{site.data.keyword.containershort}}, see [Logging for the IBM Bluemix Container Service](containers/logging_containers_ov.html#logging_containers_ov).  

**Note:** You can analyze container logs in {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}} for Docker containers that are deployed in the {{site.data.keyword.IBM}}-managed cloud infrastructure.

## Log analysis in Bluemix
{: #logging_bmx_ov_ui}

In {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}, you can view the recent logs for your app or tail logs in real time.

* You can view, filter, and analyze logs through the UI. For more information, see [Analyzing logs from the Bluemix console](logging_view_dashboard.html#analyzing_logs_bmx_ui).

* You can view, filter, and analyze logs by using the the command line to manage logs programmatically. For more information, see [Analyzing logs from the CLI](logging_view_cli.html#analyzing_logs_cli).

## Advanced log analysis with Kibana
{: #logging_bmx_ov_kibana}

In {{site.data.keyword.Bluemix_notm}}, you can use Kibana, an open source analytics and visualization platform, to monitor, search, analyze, and visualize your data in a variety of graphs, for example charts and tables. For more information, see [Advanced log analysis with Kibana](kibana4/analyzing_logs_Kibana.html#analyzing_logs_Kibana).


